Dear Mom:
 
  I have prayed for you often since our conversation we had before
I left to come here to Canada and thought it time and necessary
to follow up on our conversation.  I have prayed that you may come
to know the one and true living God and not just about him or a
charactature that you may have developed in your heart and thoughts
over your lifetime.
 
  St. Paul said many things about you.  Here are two:
 
    "..my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel (substitute
     your name) is that you might be saved.
 
     For I bear record that you have a zeal of God, but NOT
     ACCORDING TO KNOWLEDGE.
 
     For being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about
     to establish your own righteousness (aka: sacraments and other
     works), HAVE NOT SUBMITTED yourself unto the righteousness
     of God."
 
                                Romans 10:1-3
 
    "Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars hill (in Greece) and said,
     Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too
     superstitious.
 
     For as I have passed by and beheld your devotions, I found
     and altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD, whom
     you ignornantly worship, him I declare unto you."
 
                                Acts 17:22-23
 
  These two verses best sum up our conversations we have had
over the last several years.  In the first, Paul talks about how
his Jewish friends are zealous toward God and do not know him.
In the second, Paul is talking to the Greeks and telling them
that they worship in ignorance God and must now come to know him
as he truly is.  In our conversations, all I have been doing is
is pointing out to you your zeal for God, but without knowledge,
your attempting to establish your own righteousness instead of
accepting Christ's righteousness and declaring to you the God you
worship in ignorance and telling you about him as he describes
himself, not as you or I want to imagine him.
   
  I think it is well to write down my thoughts to you at this time
so that you may read and study my words and be better able to
understand them.  This is, in fact, what the bible is all about,
God talking/writing to us so that we may know him better.
 
  Why cannot a person know him without reading the bible?  Cannot
God communicate with us without the bible.  Of course he can.
However, perceptions can sometimes deceive us.  Let me give you
a simple example.
 
  I walk into a room and you meet me for the first time and we talk.
Maybe over a period of time we have several conversations and you
think you begin to know me pretty well.  One day, you run across
my diary and you begin to read what I have written.  From reading
this diary, you realize that you really knew almost nothing about
the real me and that your perceptions were all wrong.
 
  This is what happens when a person relys totally on conversation
(prayer) with God and not read his diary (bible).  Being human, we
can be easily deceived, not only by outside influences, but by the
way we want things to be instead of listening to God to tell us
the way things are in writing so that there can be no mis-
understanding.
 
  The obvious question is how can anyone be sure which interpretation
(understanding) is correct.  There are several steps to accomplish
this.
 
  1) The whole bible must be used, not just bits and pieces.  You
     have asked me why other religions have different inter-
     pretations from each other.  This is the reason.  They take
     only parts and use them and not the whole.  A question - how
     many books can read and understand the whole message by
     reading only portions you like?
 
  2) Submitting yourself to God - There are going to be honest
     misunderstandings about what the bible teachs about SOME
     THINGS, NOT ALL.  The only way to resolve them is by total
     submission to God.  This allows you to accept what he has
     to say whether you like it or not.
 
       Example, when I talk with dad about these things, you
     know that even when proven 100% wrong, he will not accept it,
     because he does not want to.  In your case and mine also,
     unless a person is willing to submit themselves to God and
     accept what he has to say, the person will always be
     argueing with him and misunderstanding him, not because he
     is not being clear, but because the person will not listen
     to the answer.
 
  What I would like to do now is summarize some of the things we
have talked about in the past by asking a question and then 
answering.  This will not only give you something to read as often
as you feel need to, but it is my fervent prayer that you will
take what I say to God in prayer and he will answer you if you
are willing to accept the answer.
 
  Question one - Is the bible the word of God?  Why isn't just what
some people have written down about what they think about God?
 
  In answering the question, I could talk about everything from 
4000 year old prophecies that have been or are being fulfilled as
I write to a historical analysis of the facts presented in the
scripture.  Those aspects we have addressed in conversation before
and we can do so again when I return.  I think an interesting way
of answering this is to present what the persons in the bible 
thought about this topic.
 
  First, what did King David thing about the scriptures written
before his lifetime?
 
    "For ever, O Lord, thy word is written in heaven."
 
                                    Psalm 119:89
 
    "I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved, because they
     kept not thy word."
 
                                    Psalm 119:158
 
  It is clear from what King David said here that he considered
the scripture written before his lifetime to have been from God
himself and was not someone's opinion.  Would you call the words
in this letter "Steve's words" if you did not think they were my
words?  Of course not, and David calls the scripture the Lord's
words, therefore asserting they are from God.
 
  Having demonstrated that the people in the bible who read the
scripture considered it from God, the next aspect of the question is
what did the people who actually wrote it think?
 
    "All scripture is GIVEN BY INSPIRATION OF GOD, and is
     profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction,
     for instruction in righteousness.
 
     That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished
     unto all good works."
 
                                    2 Timothy 3:16-17
 
    "And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we
     were with him in the holy mount...
 
     For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man,
     but holy men of God SPAKE AS THEY WERE MOVED BY THE HOLY
     SPIRIT."
 
                                    2 Peter 1:18,21
 
  St. Paul wrote the letter to Timothy and St. Peter wrote the
2nd letter of Peter.  So these two apostles believed that God
inspired the words of the scripture to these men who were
"moved by the Holy Spirit" and were not "opinions".
 
  Are there examples of God speaking to men in the scripture that
could be an example to help to demonstrate this.  Absolutely.  Let
me give you two examples that you would be very familiar with.
 
    "And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from
     Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.
 
     And straight away coming up out of the water, he saw
     heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending
     upon him;
 
     And there came a voice from heaven, saying "Thou art my
     beloved son, in whom I am well pleased."
 
                                    Mark 1:9-12
 
    "And the angel answered and said unto her (Virgin Mary), The
     Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the 
     Highest shall overshadow thee, therefore also that holy
     thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the
     Son of God."
 
                                    Luke 1:35
 
  These two example illustrate how scripture can be passed down
from God to men.  He communicates with them, in these cases, with
Jesus when on earth and Mary to tell her she would bear the
son of God.
 
  Let me give you one more example that you would be familiar with
and is yet to come.  These verses are part of Pentecost when
Peter was explaining that what was spoken was men speaking under
the inspiration of God and then he went on to say it would
happen in your's and mine time.
 
    "And it shall come to pass in the last days, SAITH GOD, I
     will pour out of my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons
     and daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall
     see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams."
 
                                    Acts 2:17
 
  To summarize briefly, the people in the bible claim that all
scripture is from God himself and is not someone's opinion, that
scripture is written by God inspiring the writer's words and
that he can communicate what he wants to say in a variety of ways,
from his Holy Spirit communicating to the use of an angel.
 
  Question two - Who is Jesus Christ?  Simple question, and
I will give a simple answer.
 
    "In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God,
     and the word was God...
 
     And the word became flesh..."
 
                                    John 1:1,14
 
  These verses demonstrate simply that (1) the word was God and
(2) became flesh, namely Jesus Christ.  Therefore, Jesus is
God Almighty.
 
  Let me also quote the profit Isaiah.
 
    "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and
     the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name
     shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, THE MIGHTY GOD,
     the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace."
 
                                    Isaiah 9:6
 
  Jesus Christ is God Almighty.
 
  Question three - Does God love us.  Again simple question and
I will give a simple answer.
 
    "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten
     son, that whosoever should believe in him should not
     perish, but have everlasting life."
 
                                    John 3:16
 
    "But God showed his love toward us, in that while we were
     yet sinners, Christ died for us."
 
                                    Romans 5:8
 
  Obviously, God loves us.
 
  Question four - Does God also hate?
 
    "As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have
     I hated."
 
                                    Romans 9:13
 
  I do not believe you knew that aspect of his personality.
God hating?  Yet there it is.
 
  Question five - Is God a God of destruction?  Yes, he is a
God of this also.  Remember the flood of Noah?
 
    "And the Lord said, I will DESTROY man whom I have created
     from the face of the earth; both man and beast, and the
     creeping thing and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth
     me that I made them."
 
                                    Genesis 6:7
 
  Is he still a God of destruction?  God does not change.
 
    "Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today and forever."
 
                                    Hebrews 13:8
 
  Is there an example of God destroying in the future?
 
    "And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth,
     blood and fire and pillars of smoke.
 
     The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into
     blood, before the great and terrible day of the Lord."
 
                                     Joel 2:30-31
 
    "But the day of the Lord shall come as a thief in the night,
     in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise,
     and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth
     also and the works that are therein shall be burned up."
 
                                     2 Peter 3:10
 
  I want you to remember questions four and five.  These may
be things you never knew or thought of as parts of God's
personality.
 
  Question six - Is there going to be a judgement.  Yes there
is and let me show you.
 
    "So then everyone of us shall give account of us before
     God."
 
                                     Romans 14:12
 
    "And I saw the dead great and small stand before God, and
     the books were opened and another book was opened which is
     the book of life; and the dead were judged by those things
     written in the books, according to their works."
 
                                     Revelations 20:12
 
    "Saying with a loud voice, fear God, and give glory to
     him; for the hour of his judgement is come; and worship him
     that made heaven and earth, and the sea, and the fountains
     of the waters."
 
                                     Revelation 14:7
 
    "For the Father judgeth no man, but has committed all
     judgement unto the son."
 
                                     John 5:22
 
  So there is going to be a judgement and it will be a personnel
judgement  each indiviual and Jesus will be the judge.
 
  Question seven - Does everyone get into heaven from this
judgement, and if not where do they go?  Is there a hell?
 
  I am sad to say that not every will go to heaven and that
there is a hell.  Let me show you.
 
    "And whosoever was not found written in the book of life
     was cast into the LAKE OF FIRE."
 
                                     Revelations 20:15
 
    "The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God
     which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his
     indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and
     brimestone both in the presence of the holy angels, and
     in the presence of the Lord.
 
    "And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and
     ever; and they have no rest day or night, who worship
     the beast and his image and whosover receiveth the mark
     of his name."
 
                                     Revelations 41:10-11
 
    "But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him,
     which after he has killed has power to cast into hell,
     yea I say unto you, fear him."
 
                                     Luke 12:5
 
  We have now established that there is a hell and that people
will be tossed into it.  This brings us to another series of
questions.
 
  Let me first stop here.  I want to remind you of something.
The reason for this letter is to remind you of what we talked
about before I left for Canada, questions that came up and
answers we talked about.  I want you to have a complete under-
standing of what the scripture says about certain topics.
 
  I will now move on to some other questios.  These questions
will focus in on salvation, who has it and who doesn't.
 