   I think that the recent press coverage concerning problems
   in Datapak has seriously misrepresented the facts.
   
   Televerket's choice of another vendor could be justified
   on the basis of our delivery history (for developments and
   equipment) or compliance with Televerket's unique requirements.
   However, the articles in SvD and Datateknik Nr. 6 give the
   impression that McDonnell Douglas is mainly to blame for
   the operating problems in Datapak. Spadab's experience with
   Datapak is the most well known example.
   
   Televerket has now given out to the press more details around
   the XPI problem. The journalist calls this an 'unproven technique'
   which resulted in many short disruptions of service.
   
   The XPI problems have been singled out for public viewing because
   the symptoms are visible, and therefore noticeable. The machine
   simply stops with a console display that indicates a fault detected
   by the XPI board.
   
   This product has had a very unfortunate history. Televerket was the
   only user of the MXP-XPI product, with low management visibility.
   The so-called XPI problem surfaced in 1986, shortly after the MDCSC
   factory moved to Irvine, Calif. A Task Force to solve the
   problems was not created until January, 1987, and the first
   regular meeting of this task force was in May, 1987, nearly a
   full year after faulty XPI boards started to arrive in Sweden.
   
   The main effect of this problem was that new installations could
   not progress, since Televerket would not accept equipment that
   crashed during the acceptance period.   Consequently the committments
   made to Televerket marketing and to Spadab could not be honored,
   as the planned growth of the network was stopped.
   
   At this point so-called 'quality experts' were called in to
   look into the methodology of producing the board and its software.
   As the board was designed prior to 1985, techniques in use at that
   time, i.e. assembly language coding, lack of formal procedures,
   QA by the development department, and manual PCB design, were all
   exposed to view and each blamed for the problem. Actually, these
   techniques have been used successfully for years by all of the
   equipment vendors.
   
   After a thorough investigation a very small number of Engineering
   errors, software errors, and a bad batch of 'delay line' chips
   from a chip vendor were identified. The nature of the faults was
   such that failures occurred infrequently, and did not depend upon
   load, as stated in one press article.
   
   The frequency of stops is not consistent with the story of
   'frequent short stops' in the service reported in the press
   about Spadab's difficulties. It is true, however, that each
   stop resulted in considerable incovenience as the IBM software
   was unable to deal with call clearing in the network, requiring
   a manual restart for each application.
   
   The truth is we don't know, even today, what fraction of incidents
   of call clearing were due to XPI problems, and what fraction were due
   to other causes. No monitoring procedures had been put into Datapak
   prior to February, 1987 (Operation 'Luppen') to try to gain
   statistical insight into the causes of network clearing.
   
   According to the information gathered by Luppen over a three-week
   period, there were 877 calls reported cleared by Spadab. Of these,
   396 clears were caused by X.25 software or unknown causes; (45.1%)
   209 clears were caused by power failures; (23.8%)
   129 clears were caused by Televerket transmission system failures; (14.7%)
   103 clears were caused by operations; (11.7%)
    76 clears were caused by XPI or LAN failures; (8.7%) and
     4 clears were caused by hardware (0.4%)
   
   For clears due to X.25 software or unknown, only about 40% could
   be confirmed as software failures. The balance were unknown; not a
   single crash dump was made available to us to analyze.
   
   I am persuaded, however, that even these statistics are suspect.
   Quite probably, not all incidents were recorded.  During a similar
   period in October of 1987, we found in the network logger
   111 slot crashes and only 23 reported. After 8 days we were notified
   that a serious problem was found in the network.  Looking back
   in the network to July, 1987, there were more than 200 such
   crashes, yet MDIS was supplied with only one crash dump.
   
   I believe that Televerket has been negligent in the area of network
   operation and maintenance. Problems that are not reported in a proper
   way cannot be corrected. Problems that are not reported with meaningful
   statistical importance cannot be prioritized.
   
   Unfortunately, the crisis surrounding Spadab's service was
   not brought to our attention in time to study the problems
   and design alternatives. Spadab had strong disagreements with
   Televerket, but never once called us to ask if there was anything
   we could suggest. For our part, we repeatedly asked Televerket for an
   update to the requirements, or changes to the traffic distributions,
   that were due to Spadab's requirements, which we understood to be
   much higher than the figures given in the Datapak contract technical
   description.
   
   On one occasion Televerket discussed the possibility of using dedicated
   machines as gateways to the Spadab hosts, but they didn't pursue
   this idea. 
   
   Our suspicion at this time was that Spadab favored an IBM solution
   internally, and was looking for ways to break with Televerket.
   
   Televerket has also been negligent in the application of available
   software corrections. Televerket lacks a project management function
   to control their software configurations. The philosophy of
   updating software as a network package, rather than an as required
   basis, has resulted in months of below-quality service for their
   subscribers.
   
   Televerket has yet to fully deploy a software correction to version
   4.03 that was made available in the middle of January.  We have
   now found three slot crashes due to this missing correction.
   
   It is my expert opinion that the majority of network problems are
   related either to the X.25 software, or lie outside the area that
   we can be responsible for.  It is frightening to know that so
   many of the problems might be caused by the customer DTE, modems,
   or transmission systems that we shall never know the cause
   of Spadab's 'short interruptions'.
   
   Televerket was negligent in refusing to install software version 3.01.
   They were informed that version 3.00 was no longer supported, yet
   they continued to wait for the promised version 4.00.  Today we
   see problems reported in 4.00 that should have been fixed in 3.01,
   or could have been fixed if only software dumps had been made.
   
   Televerket never managed to implement the traffic plan that we
   had recommended. They left a number of older machines, which were
   not included in the traffic plans, 'temporarily' connected to
   critical nodes in Stockholm and Hammarby.
   
   Finally, Televerket has been negligent in their unwillingness to
   accept recommendations and alternative solutions to their problems.
   An example has been their insistence on a 'single node appearance'
   for the system. This gave birth to the MXP LAN idea, which gives
   a system with more single points of failure than the traditional
   Tymnet approach. In the Step IV proposal we presented a MAC
   III solution which eliminated the need for XPI and LAN. This solution,
   Televerket stated, was a step backwards in technology. Later on, when
   Televerket realized that there was no network layer recovery
   for Spadab circuits over the LAN, the usefulness of having a node
   code in each machine became apparent. In hindsight, we should have
   been more insistent to remove this part of the system, even in
   installed and already accepted clusters, when it became apparent
   that the XPI problems were going to take too long to fix.
   
   When Televerket Management finally responded to the complaints of its
   customers, its response was to increase the requirements on the
   vendors. The way that this has been presented in the press reports
   leads one to believe that Televerket had been too lenient with its
   vendors, namely McDonnell Douglas.  What is true is that Televerket
   has finally expressed their technical requirements in a more
   thorough and professional way, and their management figures are given
   credit for solving the problems by adopting a new 'tough' policy.
   The choice of a new vendor appears to be largely politically
   motivated.
   
   The press gives the impression that Northern Telecom is providing
   a more reliable solution than Tymnet's. We have information that
   seems to contradict the public statements of
   Televerket and Spadab. According to our sources, the number of
   disconnects in a day has already reached a higher peak than
   in Datapak during its more unstable period. Nothing is said about
   the causes; however, we have heard that there are problems with
   the line card used to support 48 kilobits; that fast select calls
   and 1024 packetsize are not supported; that switch to the backup
   processor is not functioning; and that there have been complete
   failures of the big DPN node in either Stockholm or Jonkoping.
   
   Whichever vendor is chosen, Televerket cannot be assured of more
   than a short-term gain. They seem to harbour low expectations
   of their vendors and employees, which tends to produce only
   the expected result. In view of our experience, any new business
   with Televerket should be handled carefully. Requirements and
   conditions may be subject to change, and personnel may not
   be motivated to achieve a successful result.
   