                     1988-10-14


                     VD Gunnar Jerrestam
                     McDonnell Douglas


With respect to our earlier conversation I hereby deliver specifications
of what is to be included in the Settlement
Agreement which we mutually intend to conclude.

With reference to the present supply agreement the following
points shall continue to be in force.

Clause 1 contains definitions which clearly explain frequently
occuring terms in the agreement.

        This section of Supplementary agreement number 2 refers
        in 1.5.2 to Section 5, which is no longer in effect.


Clause 2, "Contractor's Scope of supply", shall remain in force.

        This clause states that we shall undertake to provide
        without any additional cost to Televerket, all and any
        hardware, software, documentation, work or services or
        other activities "necessary for the proper functioning"
        of the equipment according to the Specifications. 

        Since the product line in question is being wholly obsoleted
        it is not possible to say that future delivered products
        from the Network Systems Company will fully comply with
        the Specifications.

        Therefore the possibility to expand the network under
        the provisions of Clause 17 may result in
        intolerable development costs or opportunity costs
        depending on the application of Clause 2 to the Specifications
        (Clause 4).

        Even excluding the possibility of equipment deliveries
        after July 1, 1988, there are unsolved problems which
        may or may not have been discussed leading up to the
        Settlement Agreement. If these are raised at a later
        date Clause 2 says that we must remedy these at our
        own cost. (see list below)


Clause 3, dealing with "Contractor's subcontractors and
suppliers", shall remain in force.

        The LAN interface board is supported by Micom
        for the time being, but may not be in the future.
        Since MXP is seen as a customer-specific product by
        the Network Systems Company
        we might be obliged to support this ourselves, or
        undertake further developments.

        The rapid obsolescence of peripherals (disks, tapes,
        and their associated controllers) poses a similar
        problem, but as these are not unique to Televerket,
        the risk is lower.

Clause 4, "Specifications", dealing with the technical
specifications that apply to Datapak I,
shall be in force even for the future.

        This clause seems unclear when applied to the very
        real possibility that new CCITT recommendations might be
        complied to in the new generation of equipment, but not
        in the MP product line.

        It is unclear to what degree the present or future
        generation of equipment complies with the specifications
        for automatic reload and alarms.

        References to the multiple node code in the specification
        are obsoleted by a later Supplementary Agreement.

        The noise level given in the Annex for the present equipment
        is in error. We cannot comply with this specification.


        Clause 5 is deleted. What shall govern the Administration's
        scope of supply? Is the service agreement sufficient?

        Is Televerket required to perform preventative maintainance?
        Shall we possibly face the task of repairing equipment
        which has been damaged in unusual ways due to inadvisable
        or improperly made modifications, lack of cleaning, over-
        heating, etc.

        Clause 6 (Project Organizations) is deleted. Our organization
        is presented in the Service Agreement. What is Televerket's
        project organization?

        Clause 7 (Delivery) has been deleted, but some of its
        requirements remain intact in Clause 13 (Payment) which
        reopens the possibility that Televerket may not pay
        until all of the supplier's scope of supply deliverables
        are "accepted".


Clause 8. "Documentation". The documentation shall have
such a content that TVT, based on the personnel's
training and competence, can at least keep up DATAPAK's current
level of operation quality even with the introduction of new
software releases. This means that a program cannot be Fully
Released until such documentation is available. Also the updating of
the Site Documentation shall be guaranteed.

This means that documentation following the standard that we have had
up to now (which applies to the contents and quality) shall be guaranteed
to be available at the right time.


        This clause refers to specifications in Annex IV to
        Supplementary Agreement No. 2. We are required to produce
        five main types of documents: (1) Operators Guides (2)
        End User's Guides (3) System Programmer's Guides (4) Concepts
        and Facilities and (5) Reference Manuals. Detailed specifications
        are given regulating the form and content of hardware and
        software manuals. Formal requirements are given regulating
        the paper size (A4 except for drawings), binder
        organization, and indexes.

        The present documentation complies in content with many of
        requirements stated in this annex. For the equipment
        delivered prior to July 1, 1988, most of the content is
        satisfied except that Systems Programmers Guides are
        not an existing product. Programmers' notes and other
        confidential design documents are kept in the development
        office, but only some of the materials are accessible
        internally and may vary in quality.

        Some manuals, such as an Operator's Guide update for the
        Network Console, are missing and not planned at this time.
        Other operator's manuals have been written specifically
        to satisfy Televerket's needs. Dedicated resources were used
        to produce these manuals, and we have received
        invoices for the work.

        Our impression of the Operations Manuals is that the quality
        and content varies widely from product to product. Compliance
        with section 2.4 of the specifications is nominal.

        The next generation of manuals to be produced will follow
        a different format from the manuals which Televerket has
        received to date. The documentation will be organized
        into chapter form (modules) which are
        targeted for specific groups of users. The documentation
        will have a more uniform quality and content than formerly.

        We cannot guarantee that products delivered after July 1,
        1988, will follow the specifications that have been
        complied to in the past. The need for Operations Manuals
        will be greatly reduced by increased program user-friendliness
        and a common user interface. We expect most of the
        present network operations tools will be merged
        into new software by the end of 1989. We expect that
        the documentation for this product will contain many
        examples of the more commonly occurring tasks in
        network operation. Separate Operations Manuals will
        not be produced.
        
        

        We have an example of the new modular documentation
        in the DDT Reference Manual Version 10 which we recently
        received. Some simple tasks are documented, which is a
        significant advance over the previous documentation. While
        not complying with the format in section 2.4 of the 
        specification, much of the content complies.

        Plant Documentation for the installed base of equipment
        is produced in Sweden. This is being produced following
        the format given by Televerket.

        It is not technically difficult to produce
        updates to the manuals for the present equipment. However,
        we think that it will be increasingly difficult to find
        resources to write manuals specifically for TVT as
        the new equipment generation expands.

        
        Clause 9, Acceptance Procedures, has been deleted. What
        governs whether equipment delivered after July 1, 1988,
        will be accepted?

Clause 10. "Training" The possibility to purchase the supplier's standard
courses at standard prices must be guaranteed.

Clause 11, "Guarantees", shall remain, with the same contents as
before.

        This clause contains many guarantees.  Some which are
        outside of our scope of supply at this time are
        listed below.

        Section 11.1 guarantees that the repair time
        for a faulty part may not exceed 72 hours. In the
        Service Agreement Annex 3 we stated 30 days.

        Section 11.2 guarantees that maintenance and support of the
        software shall be for a mininum of ten (10) years after the
        "last" delivery.

        Because the MXP product is TVT-specific,
        we think it likely that "product incompatibility"
        problems will put an extra burden on us, and not without
        costs. We think that the product life is prematurely
        shortened. This is unfortunate, because Tymnet
        has so much of the standard Engine product installed
        that were it not for MXP, a long useful life could
        be assured.


        Section 11.3 guarantees that the documentation is entirely
        sufficient and adequate for proper maintainance and operation
        of the equipment for a mininum of ten (10) years after the
        last delivery. If TVT so requests, we shall repair
        the hardware or correct the software at our own
        expense, when the problem is due to a defect in
        the documentation.


        In view of this clause, we ought to notify TVT that regular
        preventative maintainance should be performed according
        to the maintainance manual, even though it may not
        be explicitly stated anywhere in the documentation
        that this needs to be done.

        Section 11.5 guarantees that we assure a supply of spare
        parts for at least ten (10) years after the last delivery,
        and further, that we give 1 year advance notice should we
        intend to cease to procure any type of spare part.

        In view of this clause, we should be especially
        certain of our supply of INTERLAN and XPI parts,
        which are TVT-specific. The INTERLAN card, which
        is Non-McDonnell Douglas hardware, is a particular
        risk, since if the supply or specifications for this
        board change, possible engineering or software modifications
        may be needed on the XPI board.

        A similar problem is posed by disk and tape peripherals
        and their associated controllers. While these are not
        TVT-specific, it may be necessary from time to time
        to make substitutions. Under these circumstances, it is
        unclear whether TVT would pay for additional spares and
        equipment changes. (Note this problem was unsolved when
        Supplementary agreement No. 2 was signed; refer to section
        16.5)

Clause 12. "Prices". The discounts and special conditions
for MXP and "Site Documentation" must be written in, and shall be
applicable even in the future.

Clause 13. "Payment" Normally the payment shall take place
30 days after delivery is accepted.

        Our concern is that payment does not occur until
        after the equipment has been "accepted". In the past,
        we have seen that there is in fact no limit to the
        amount of time that the acceptance cycle can take.

        Many factors can lead to a delay due to the bundling
        of deliverables. If features that TVT deems 'necessary
        for acceptance' are not in the current version of
        software, the acceptance cycle stops until the
        next major software release. If related documentation
        is unavailable until a later date, the acceptance cycle
        could be stopped.

        Many delays are caused by the lack of resources at both
        McDonnell and TVT to conduct tests of new software.

        Installation costs, for example, are to be paid within
        30 days of the Actual Date of Delivery. From Clause 1,
        the Actual Date of Delivery does not occur until all
        of the supplier's scope of supply deliverables have
        been fulfilled: all necessary equipment, documentation,
        and training required to assure the proper functioning
        of the equipment according to the Specifications in Clause 4.

        It is possible therefore, that installation costs may
        not be paid pending delivery of a new documentation
        or software package. Updated software must then be
        retested, which restarts the entire acceptance cycle.

        We think that the delivery should be unbundled so that
        at least partial payments can be made for the parts
        of the system that are actually delivered.

        We are concerned that there is no provision for either
        partial or advance payments to be made for equipment
        delivered after July 1, 1988.
        
        Clause 14 'Liquidated damages' has been deleted.
        It becomes unclear then, whether we are responsible
        for further delays in the equipment ordered before July 1,
        1988, or delays for equipment ordered after July 1, 1988.

        Clause 15 'Termination' is deleted.

Clause 16, "Miscellaneous", shall remain, and shall include
the right to utilize T.A.S. service or equivalent service at MDIS
normal prices.

        In section 16.5 the handling of the source code,
        system generation, and maintainance of the disks were
        listed as "unsolved" problems which remain even today.

Clause 17. "Options"  Agreed upon conditions between the parties
shall be in force at least until July 1, 1991.

        Regarding source code rights, this may be acceptable
        to some for current products, but should TVT order
        the new generation of equipment and software
        I do not believe we have the right to extend this with
        agreement without the consent of Network Systems Company.

        Note especially that TVT must be notified 1 year in
        advance if the supplier intends to stop
        manufacturing "such" equipment, If applicable to the
        the present generation of equipment, this situation may
        be close to reality today. If so, we should have
        great difficulty to honor this clause.


Clause 18, "Applicable Law", shall remain in force unchanged.

Clause 19, "Disputes", shall remain in force unchanged.

        Clause 20 'Changes' is deleted. Considering that most
        of the problems have resulted from the Scope of Supply
        and Changes demanded, we feel that it is a mistake to
        leave these rules out altogether.  In the past, however,
        the possibility to reject Changes as technologically
        inadvisable, or to request changes in the Specifications
        has been negligible.

        Clause 21 'Project Group and Progress Report' is deleted.

        Clause 22 'Priority' is deleted. This clause specifies
        the priority that Clauses, Specifications, and Descriptions
        shall have in case of conflict.

        The existing (Telepak nodes) of Datapak are exempted from
        the specifications.

Moreover the provisions of the Supplementary Agreements
concerning the expansions made by Televerket up to July 1, 1988,
and other agreements which are in effect relating to expansions
which today are being implemented or are in operation, shall be
included in the new Settlement Agreement.

The proposed text in Draft Settlement Agreement 15.09.88
point 2b, the last part (middle of page 5) shall be
corrected so that TVT is given the right to utilize the development
which is performed according to the Support Agreement.

With kind greetings

Esko Olsson


General comments.
-----------------

Section 2(a) and 2(c) of the Settlement agreement, especially the
wording 'including without limitation' is nullified by the inclusion
of specifications and requirements in the proposed Settlement agreement.
For an understanding of some of the potential liabilities of this
change, read below.


Unsolved problems
-----------------

Listed below are some of the more important unsolved problems
relating to equipment delivered before July 1, 1988. It is hoped
that these have been discussed and dealt with in the Settlement
Agreement.

1. X.75/X.25 multilink protocol (MLP)

2. Inband signalling

3. 10% developments, improvements in the technology.

   Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, are we held harmless
   from any obligation to deliver functionality described in TVT's
   10% development requirements document?

   The next generation of network tools should become available in 1989.
   These address many of the requirements stated in the 10% developments
   package.  Are we obliged to deliver new hardware and software
   free of charge to TVT or shall they pay the standard prices?

4. Systems programmers manuals


5. SIO/XPI board quality issues

There remains a dispute arising from the acceptance criteria
agreed to by TNSC/Tymnet for circuit board quality.
XPI artwork "B" and SIO circuit boards (all versions) exceeded the number
of permitted revisions per square decimeter (a minor fault).
Step 1 was accepted subject to replacement of SIO and XPI boards
not meeting the requirements, and we agreed to replace these boards.

Replacement of SIO turned out to be impossible as there was no new "etch"
of this board planned, nor would it be economically
feasible to dump the entire inventory of boards at the factory to
bring out a newly-designed board. The boards were not replaced.

The XPI version "B" boards were not phased out, either.
Artwork "C" XPI was available it also was so close to the limit
that it would not be worth jeopardizing the network
reliability to phase in such a minor change.

6. Noise level. The equipment is noisy by present day standards
and does not fulfil TVT's union requirements.  That is a problem
in places where the union has made complaints. There is a
specification in the contract, which is in error (but not in
our favor). THe document states 20-23 DB, which corresponds to
more than 80 dBA if DB is measured relative to 1 microwatt. It
is problematic to reduce the noise level further, and impossible
to reach the union requirement of 37 dBA.

It is possible to reduce the noise level by replacing the fan unit
with a 48 volt unit manufactured by Polyamp.  This solution is not
accepted by NSC engineering, as there is not enough air flow to
guarantee sufficient cooling if one or more of the fans fail.
Nevertheless, TVT does operate some 48 volt sites in
this configuration, so far without difficulty. If the union
demanded a solution, we might be liable under Clause 4
to undertake the rebuilding of the equipment.
F2È